>> Brian Holt: Hello, and welcome to the
complete intro to containers version 2.
And I'm Brian Holt, and
let's hop into the introduction here.
>> Brian Holt: So this is a course
designed to teach you about containers and
kind of to mystify what containers are.
Describe how they can be
useful to you personally, and
kind of in your programming journey.
And just kinda walk through all
the steps of how to build a container,
what's in a container, and
how they're gonna be useful for you.
Containers are just getting more and
more important as the years go on.
I taught this course first 5 years ago,
and I made the prediction that containers
would be just more important,
and turns out I was right.
And I still think,
they got more ways to go.
So who are you?
This course is aimed at developers, so
all the examples here will be
driven by that kind of that fact.
You don't necessarily need to
be a super in depth advanced
developer to get a lot of use out of this.
But I will say that some coding
experiences can be super helpful here.
There's lots of cool courses on front
of masters like intro to web dev,
they'll teach you kind
of those basic skills.
And then the other thing I'll say that
will be helpful is some Linux experience.
So a lot of this course is taught on
the command line and using Linux.
So I do have another course
called Complete Intro to Linux on
the Command line.
Also, and Fronted Masters,
that's available if you need
a bit of a catch up right there.
There is alot of tips and tricks there,
I think everyone can benefit
a little from that course as well.
We are on, just so you know,
container-v2.holt.courses,
what you see here are my notes.
So I have two computers here,
one has my notes upon it, so
I'm literally reading off with
that one I'm teaching to you.
This is all open sourses,
it's available for free.
So feel free to reference it after
the course or share it with your friends.
That's all totally okay.
As far as your computer that
you should probably be using
during the course of this course is,
I'm on Mac OS.
Everything that I'm teaching
today will work great on Mac OS.
This course has also been
tested on Windows, so
as long as you have Windows 11 or
10, this course should work.
It used to matter if you had home or not
home, that's no longer important anymore.
Just make sure you're on 10 or 11.
And then if you're on
Windows specifically,
please enable either WSL2 or VirtualBox.
We'll talk more about that
here in a future section, but
that's what you're gonna need.
There is a bunch of project files for
this.
You can refer to them here.
I have a link there that
should take you to GitHub,
which has all of the correct
project files for you, and
they're all labeled just by what section
that we're talking about at the moment.
Container could use a lot of CPU and
memory.
If you have a modern-ish, and I say
modern-ish, made after 2020, I don't know,
here I'm stabbing in the dark, but
if your computer's been made after 2020,
you're probably fine.
Docker requires 4 gigs of RAM.
Anything lower,
you're probably in trouble.
But if you have 8 gigs of RAM, I think
this course is totally smooth sailing.
Last thing I'll say is a lot of this
is downloading stuff off of Docker Hub.
That can take a lot of bandwidth.
So if you're on metered bandwidth,
just be aware that you'll probably
download over a gig during
the course of this course.
Where to file issues.
This course is open source.
So please, if you find any mistakes,
both either grammatical or technical,
just open a pull request.
Me and the Frontend Masters team are
pretty good about keeping an eye on that.
So yeah, just open a pull request on
the repo, which you can see is here.
>> Brian Holt: Who am I?
I'm that dashing gentleman
that you see there.
My name is Brian Holt.
I am the vice president of product
at a company called SQLite Cloud.
Or sometimes I'll call it
SQLite Cloud because I'm lazy and
I worked at Microsoft long enough where
they smash into my head that it said SQL.
I love teaching that's why I keep coming
back to Frontend Masters over and over and
over and over again.
It really scratches just
an itch in my brain.
And the other thing that I've
also discovered is just,
teaching helps me understand
something more fundamentally.
So it forces me to kind of peel back
all of my layers of knowledge and
really get at the core of what's going on.
I'm sure you all know the feeling of,
you understand how something works, but
you've never really bothered to open the
box to figure out why it works that way.
I like teaching because it
forces me to open the box.
So I learned a ton in the process
of creating this course,
even though this is the second
revision of this course, right?
Yeah, so I work on a cloud
database at SQLite Cloud.
And before that,
I used to work at Snowflake and Stripe and
Microsoft as a product manager,
developer relations person.
But previous to that,
I was a JavaScript engineer for a decade,
at Linkedin, Netflix,
Reddit, a few other places.
So I've had a pretty wide varied career.
And I've done everything
from design engineering.
I did a lot of that at
Reddit in particular,
all the way to very deep backend and
infrastructure stuff.
I did a lot of that at LinkedIn,
and Microsoft in particular.
And at Snowflake and at SQLite that I do
a lot of stuff with Kubernetes these days.
So I've done everything in
terms of full stack there.
Why containers, and
why learn containers from me?
When I worked at Microsoft,
I worked on Azure.
I was in charge of developer experience
for all JavaScript developers that worked
with Azure, and so containers were
a really important part of that strategy.
So I really dove deep into them to really
learn how they worked, and I was always
surprised, this is less complicated
than I thought it was gonna be.
And so that was part of my reason of
wanting to teach this course is to teach
developers, particularly,
JavaScript-oriented developers, but
any developer, really,
that this is a really powerful tool, and
it's very understandable.
So that's what got me inspired to teach
this course, and I hope you enjoy it.